---
title: "Privacy 03: The Implications Of Social Media On One's Thought Process"
date: 2018-08-16T17:35:40+05:30
---
\
\

# The Social Media

I probably don't need to introduce anyone to the ridiculously massive world of Social Media (if I do, woah, where have you been all these years?!). Social Media is a cumulative term for everything - website, software, or mobile application - which _helps_ people interact with each other and share each other's lives, or their own. There are a myriad of companies which have these platforms, the most prominent being - Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, SnapChat, etc. One can simply hop on the Internet, visit these platforms and even use (most of it) for _free_.

On surface, this sounds like a really intriguing idea. But, is it actually _that_ simple? Think about it, these companies have, quite often, a large amount of advertisements and posts which you didn't even subscribe to. Why do they do that?

# The Truth

The truth is that they target you based on on your digital profile (which includes, but is not limited to, where you live) and hence provide advertisements and posts which are designed to, even, change your opinions and thoughts about something.

Let's say, for example, your digital profile shows that you have been recently looking for a new pair of jeans. These companies will give you targeted advertisements and posts about some really popular, often expensive, brands of jeans. You might not even realize it but you will be inclined and interested in purchasing that brand jeans. Your brain gets rewired to get that brand of jeans. You might just feel like you simply want it, but, **your thoughts process is altered by these posts and advertisements**. It is highly probable that you didn't even need such expensive pair of jeans, and even the fact that you might not even like it after the _hype_ of buying it. But what's done is done! There isn't any going back.

These advertisements and posts are really powerful. As much knowledge as they can potentially give us, they are equally capable of completely brainwashing us.

# The Solution

The simple solution is to be very wary of what you see on the social media and to understand the topics of posts/advertisements completely before jumping to conclusions.

Of course, the easiest solution is to forgo the Social Media completely and perhaps find a better and more reliable resource to communicate and get information. But then again, it is probably not possible for most of the people.

In that case, the best option is to take these posts and advertisements with a grain of salt and understand that they are designed to manipulate you. Being paranoid in privacy and security is **NOT** a bad thing. It will help you keep yourself safe from all the trash that goes on, not just on Social Media, but, throughout the entire Web.

Well, this was a rather smaller post. But that's all for now.

Until next time, Ciao!
